#142 AdnGlue page (1.4.0) (#145)
Inbibo/adonisfx_docs: docs/maya/glue.md

# AdnGlue

AdnGlue is a Maya node that can be used to attach multiple muscles together. This solver uses as input a series of simulated muscles and allows the user to define glue connections between those muscles by using a maximum distance value and painted maps.

> The maps required to control the AdnGlue solver can be painted using the standard Maya Paint tool.

Reviewer: Would you add this to a designated note?

Author: If you agree, I would do that in the Simple Setup page (as we do for other deformers)

Reviewer: Agreed!

### How To Use

> The AdnGlue node can be applied to any set of geometries. For each geometry, their mesh at each frame is gathered and simulated to ensure the original distance between the neighboring geometries. This is achieved by creating attachments between each vertex of a geometry and the closest point on the surface of the other geometries. More aspects are then computed to ensure that the simulated output preserves the original shape, edge-lengths and volume of the simulated meshes. The output of the node is a mesh that combines all the input geometries together and adds the results of the solver.

Reviewer: "volume of the simulated meshes" if maybe a user reads this and does see that the glue is not preserving volume they might think tha the volume constraint is not working when it's actually not integrated. This is just a thought, this sentence still makes sense!

Author: I agree. I have removed "and volume"

> To create an AdnSkin deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

Author: Sorry for that. fixed: "AdnGlue node"

  - **Input Geometries** (IG): List of geometries to be simulated and attached together by the glue solver.

> [!NOTE]

> > - Applying the AdnGlue node will automatically create a new mesh in your scene, which will display the results of the solver.

Reviewer: I would add a hint to the naming in case the user can't find it. `_GEO`

Author: Added `> - The naming of the new mesh created follows the format "AdnGlue1_GEO".`

> The process to create an AdnGlue deformer is:

Reviewer: Should we say node instead of deformer?

Author: Yes

1. Select the Input Geometries.
2. Press ![Glue button](images/adn_glue.png){style="width:4%"} in the AdonisFX shelf or the Glue action in the AdonisFX’s Solvers menu, under the Create section. 

> 3. A message in the terminal will notify you that AdnGlue has been created properly, meaning that it is ready to simulate with default settings. Check the next section to customize their configuration.

Reviewer: By default the glue distance is set to 0.0 so the user should not expect much from the simulation. Should we mention that here?

Author: I have added a NOTE to add this information

## Attributes

### Solver Attributes
| Name | Type | Default | Animatable | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :------ | :--------- | :---------- |
| **Enable**     | Boolean    | True    | ✓ | Flag to enable or disable the node computation. |
| **Iterations** | Integer    | 3       | ✓ | Number of iterations that the solver will execute per simulation step. Greater values mean greater computational cost. Has a range of \[1, 10\]. The upper limit is soft, higher values can be used. |
| **Stiffness**  | Float      | 5000.0  | ✓ | Defines the overall stiffness of the material to be used for the simulation. This value can be later overridden for each different aspect of the solver to fit creative needs. |

> | **Bypass**     | Boolean    | False   | ✓ | When set to True, this attribute makes the input geometry pass through the solver without any simulation being applied. This is very useful if you want to compare results between having and not having the glue simulation performed. |

Reviewer: "When set to True, this attribute makes the input geometry pass through the solver without any simulation being applied". I was just wondering is we could reformulate this as we are not preserving the original separed geometries that go out of this node.

Maybe:

```suggestion
| **Bypass**     | Boolean    | False   | ✓ | When set to True, this attribute bypasses the simulation on the combined input geometries by sending the separated input meshes directly to the the generated output mesh without glue simulation. This is very useful if you want to compare results between having and not having the glue simulation performed. |
```

The above is just and example

Author: What about this;

"When set to True, this attribute makes the input geometry pass through the solver without any simulation being applied. The solver does only transfer the input geometries into the output combined mesh. This is very useful if you want to compare results between having and not having the glue simulation performed."

Reviewer: I like it, yes!

| Name | Type | Default | Animatable | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :------ | :--------- | :---------- |
| **Point Mass Mode**        | Enumerator | By Density       | ✓ | Defines how masses should be used in the solver.<ul><li>*By Density* allows to estimate the mass value by multiplying Density * Area.</li><li>*By Uniform Value* allows to set a uniform mass value.</li></ul> |
| **Density**                | Float      | 900.0            | ✓ | Sets the density value in kg/m<sup>3</sup> to be able to estimate mass values with *By Density* mode. The value is internally converted to g/cm<sup>3</sup>. Has a range of \[0.001, 10<sup>6</sup>\]. Lower and upper limits are soft, lower and higher values can be used. |
| **Global Mass Multiplier** | Float      | 1.0              | ✓ | Sets the scaling factor applied to the mass of every point. Has a range of \[0.001, 10.0\]. Lower and upper limits are soft, lower and higher values can be used. |

#### Dynamic Properties
| Name | Type | Default | Animatable | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :------ | :--------- | :---------- |
| **Triangulate Mesh**      | Boolean  | False | ✗ | Use the internally triangulated mesh to build constraints. |

> | **Glue Multiplier**       | Float    | 1.0   | ✓ | Sets the multiplier factor for the weights of the glue constraint. Has a range of [0.0, 1.0]. |

Reviewer: I think the range is not correct here, we use 0.0 as min and 2.0 as soft max here  (but we clamp internally)

Author: Fixed

> | **Max Glue Distance**     | Float    | 1.0   | ✓ | Sets maximum distance at which a vertex has to be from neighbor surfaces to create a glue constraint. Depending on the scale of your creature, higher values might be required to guarantee dense glue connections to be created. Use the debugger to help you define the value that fits your creature the best. |

Reviewer: If I'm not mistaken the default was discussed to be 0.0
```suggestion
| **Max Glue Distance**     | Float    | 0.0   | ✓ | Sets maximum distance at which a vertex has to be from neighbor surfaces to create a glue constraint. Depending on the scale of your creature, higher values might be required to guarantee dense glue connections to be created. Use the debugger to help you define the value that fits your creature the best. |
```

Author: Right, fixed

| **Width Scale** | Float        | 3.0                  | ✓ | Modifies the width of all lines. |
| **Color**       | Color Picker | Red                  | ✓ | Selects the line color from a color wheel. Its saturation can be modified using the slider. |

## Attribute Editor Template

<figure markdown>
  ![glue editor](images/glue_attribute_editor_00.png) 
  <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: AdnGlue Attribute Editor.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Paintable Weights

In order to provide more artistic control, some key parameters of the AdnGlue solver are exposed as paintable attributes in the node. The Maya paint tool must be used to paint those parameters to ensure that the values satisfy the solver requirements.

| Name | Default | Description |

> | :--- | :------ | :---------- |

Reviewer 2: The entries of this table have to be aligned.

Author: All tables reviewed

| **Compression Resistance**      | 1.0 | Force to correct the edge lengths if the current length is smaller than the rest length. A higher value represents higher correction.<ul><li>*Tip*: To optimize the painting of the weight, flood it to 1.0 as a starting point and tweak some areas later on.</li><li>*Tip*: Reducing the value of the weight in some areas will contribute to reduce wrinkling effect.</li></ul> |
| **Glue Resistance**      | 1.0 | Force to preserve the distance to the closest point on the closest neighbor surface. A higher value represents higher correction.<ul><li>*Tip*: Paint a value of 0.0 in those areas where the gluing effect is not needed and it will increase the performance.</li></ul> |
| **Masses**                      | 1.0 | Multiplier to the individual mass values per vertex. |

> | **Max Glue Distance Multiplier** | 1.0 | Multiplier to the individual values of the max glue distance per vertex. |

Reviewer 2: If I'm not mistaken for "Max Glue Distance Multiplier" we directly skip the constraint creation if the weight is set to 0.0. Should we also add something like "Paint a value of 0.0 in those areas where the gluing effect is not needed and it will increase the performance."?

 - **Distance Constraints**: For each pair of vertices forming a constraint a line will be drawn. If the *Triangulate Mesh* option is disabled the debugged lines will align with the edges of the mesh polygons. If the *Triangulate Mesh* option is enabled the debugged lines will align with the edges of the underlying triangulation of the mesh.
 - **Shape Preservation**: For each vertex with a shape preservation weight greater than 0.0, a line will be drawn from each adjacent vertex to the opposite adjacent vertex.
 - **Glue Constraint**: A line will be drawn for every vertex to the closest point on the closest neighbor surface.

<!--
PENDING FIGURE WITH DEBUG FEATURES
-->

## Advanced

### Inputs

Once the AdnGlue node is created, it is possible to add new inputs and remove currently connected ones.

- **Add inputs**:
    1. Select one or more mesh nodes to be assigned as inputs to the AdnGlue.
    2. Select the AdnGlue output mesh.
    3. Press *Add Inputs* in the AdonisFX menu from the Edit Glue submenu.

> - **Remove inputs**:

Reviewer: Should we add a NOTE about the paintable maps not being undoable or redoable when adding or remocing inputs?

Author: I have added a note
